# CS 442 MP0: Logistics

## Goals

After successfully completing this machine problem (MP), you should understand how to:

- accept GitHub Classroom MP invitations
- clone repositories to your local machine
- open MP folders in VSCode
- complete the MP report
- commit changes and submit your work
- confirm that your submissions are successful

## 1. Overview

This MP is designed to help guide you through the steps you must follow to accept, access, and submit your work on MPs. You will follow the same steps for each subsequent MP, so it's important that you understand them well --- be sure to ask for help if you're unclear on how to perform any step, or *why* you're doing it!

## 2. Accepting MPs

Prior to accessing this writeup, you must have already created a GitHub account and accepted the invitation to create your copy of the MP repository. At this point, GitHub Classroom "knows" who you are (i.e., it has saved the mapping from your GitHub account username to the Hawk ID you selected). You will accept future MP invitations in the same manner.

After the repository is created, you'll be given a link to its homepage on GitHub -- a URL that looks something like `https://github.com/cs442app/mpXX-USERNAME` (where `XX` is the MP number and `USERNAME` is your GitHub username). Note this URL, as you'll need it to access the repository in the future.

At the top of the repository homepage is a list of its files/directories, and the contents of the `README.md` file (this writeup) will be displayed under that listing. The GitHub web interface allows you to edit files directly in the browser, but we *strongly recommend* that you do not do so. Instead, you should **clone** the repository to your local machine and work on it there; we'll show you how to do that in the next section.

## 3. Cloning the Repository

The easiest way to clone the repository to your local machine is to use the GitHub Desktop application. If you haven't already installed it, you can download it from [desktop.github.com](https://desktop.github.com). Once you have it installed, you can clone the repository by going to the repository homepage on GitHub and clicking the green "Code" button, then selecting "Open with GitHub Desktop". This will open the GitHub Desktop application and prompt you to choose a location on your local machine to save the repository.

If you are familiar with alternative methods of cloning a repository (e.g., using the command line), you are welcome to use those instead.

Once you have cloned the repository to your local machine, you can open the repository in VSCode by starting the application and selecting "File" -> "Open" and choosing the repository folder. After doing this, you should see the repository's files in the file explorer pane on the left side of the VSCode window.

You should open this "README.md" file in VSCode and continue following the instructions from there. Instead of viewing the file as plain text, you can view the formatted version by clicking the "Open Preview" button at the top right of the editor pane.

## 4. Working on MPs

Subsequent MPs will ask you to edit and/or create files in the repository in order to implement specified functionality. We will typically provide you with demo videos, code snippets, and other resources to help you. We will also provide you with a grading rubric that summarizes the requirements and associated point values for the MP.

For this MP, however, there's no coding to do. Instead, you'll just edit the MP report and submit it. We'll show you how to do that in the next two sections.

### 4.1. Completing the MP Report

Every MP will come with a file named `REPORT.md`, which is the template for your MP report. Unless an MP is explicitly marked as a group assignment, add just your own information to the "Team" section. Mark the boxes in the self-evaluation checklist that apply to your work, then edit the "Summary and Reflection" section. Please be candid and succinct in your reports!

### 4.2. Committing and Submitting

When you've finished editing your report, you must **commit** it to your local repository. You can do this by going to the "Source Control" pane on the left side of the VSCode window, clicking the "+" icon next to files containing changes you want to commit (for this MP, the only file you should commit changes to is `REPORT.md`), then entering a commit message in the text field and clicking the button labeled "Commit".

When commiting changes, sometimes you will also need to add new files to the repository. You do this the same way, by clicking the "+" icon next to the new files you want to add, then committing them. Generally speaking, you should only commit files that are necessary for us to build and run your code (e.g., source files and assets), and not files that are generated by the build process (e.g., compiled binaries).

Committing your changes saves a snapshot of them to your local repository, but in order to submit your work, you must also **push** your changes to the repository on GitHub. This is important because we will grade the version of your work that is stored on GitHub, not the version that is stored on your local machine.

After committing your changes, the "Commit" button in the Source Control pane should change to read "Sync Changes". To submit your work, click this button, and your changes will be pushed to the GitHub repository. If you don't see the "Sync Changes" button, you can also push your changes by selecting "Push" from the "..." menu in the Source Control pane.

### 4.3. Confirming Your Submission

After you have pushed your changes to GitHub, you should go to the repository homepage on GitHub and confirm that your changes are visible there. You should see the updated `REPORT.md` file with the information you added, and you should see the changes you made to the file in the commit history.

If you don't see your changes on GitHub, you should double-check that you have committed and pushed your changes in VSCode. If you still don't see your changes, you should ask for help.

Once you have confirmed that your changes are visible on GitHub, you have successfully submitted your work. You can commit and push as many times as you like before the deadline, and we will grade the most recent version of your work that was submitted before the deadline.

## 5. Summary

Here's a recap of the steps you need to follow to complete an MP:

1. Accept the MP invitation link
2. Clone the repository to your local machine
3. Open the repository in VSCode and read the instructions in the `README.md` file
4. Add/Edit files in the repository to implement the required functionality
5. Edit the `REPORT.md` file to include all requisite information
6. Commit and push your changes to GitHub
